Hi and welcome back in this video we're going to calculate the winnings and let how you play the lottery
in order to allow a user to interact with our program.
We're going to need more than just calling a single method.
We're going to need to allow the user to do everything that the program requires.
One step after another.
So the first thing we have to do is ask the user for their numbers and then we have to calculate the
lottery numbers and then we have to print out the winnings.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a new method which I'm going to call menu and this menu
is going to essentially run our program and allow the player to pick the numbers and then calculate
the lottery numbers and then print out the winnings
.
OK.
So you guys can actually do all of this.
You can ask the player for the numbers.
We've got a method for that already.
You can calculate the lottery numbers.
And then you can also calculate how many numbers did the user match.
So the intersection of the two sets returned by these methods.
The way I would do it assign the first method to a variable such as use a numbers.
The second method to another variable such as lottery numbers and then calculate the intersection.
The video and try and complete that.
Now
OK now that you've tried that let's do it here as well.
Asking the player for numbers.
We've got a method for that.
So I'm going to say use a numbers is get play in numbers and then calculating the lottery numbers is
simple as well.
Lottery numbers is create lottery numbers which is the method below.
And finally to print out the winnings we need to first calculate the winnings so matched numbers is
used on the score numbers don't in the section with lottery numbers.
And that gives us a sense that is how many numbers are in both.
So for example if a lottery generated six numbers and the user got two right then they said we'll have
those two numbers.
And finally we can print you won that much money where that money is coming in through the format available
.
So we're going to replace this value with something and that something is going to be one hundred to
the power of the length of matched numbers.
My apologies for the cursor.
It does keep going in the way.
So what this is going to do is first of all calculate the user numbers.
Or rather ask the user for them and then it's going to create lottery numbers.
And finally it is going to calculate intersection between both.
And finally it is going to multiply Treyc calculate 100 to the power of how many matched numbers there
were and tell the user how much that they won.
OK.
So let's now remember two at the bottom here.
If we no longer need to print anything we just need to run the menu press run and we get invalid syntax
because we are missing a bracket.
So I say that again and press 1 and there we go.
We can now enter our six numbers and then we get that we won 10000.
So we must have matched probably three numbers that say no to numbers my bet.
My math is not too great.
So there we go.
However it would be nice if we could also see which numbers we matched.
So let's do that to you matched.
There we go.
And now we can put the matched numbers in here in the format Ashwell.
I think you guys know how to do that.
Remember that the numbers we matched must come first inside the format method and the amount that we've
won must come second.
So you can put the matched numbers inside the format method in the correct order and I'm sure we can
do that.
OK.
Remember that parameters for the format method and indeed for any method are always separated by commas
.
So what we have to do is say matched numbers comma and then the amount so match numbers is going to
replace the first set of curly braces and the amount that we've won is going to replace the second set
of curly braces.
I'm going to save that and run it again.
And there we go we matched two and five and we won $10000.
OK.
So we no longer need these comments down here because we've implemented those up at the top and now
we are essentially finished with our app.
So congratulations for getting this far and you've learned a lot about Python you've learned about list
comprehension set comprehension and also about the mathematical uses of cents.
We've calculated lottery numbers by using a while loop and then we've implemented our first larger application
using a menu as well.
However these apps are all running in the python shell the python shell is nice but it only lets you
run one file at a time.
Or rather it's difficult to run more than one file at a time.
So what we're going to be doing in the next section is get started with more complex and larger applications
and we're going to be installing our ID which stands for Integrated Development Environment which is
a more professional software used to develop larger applications.
So I'm excited to go through that with you and get us developing larger more complex apps.
So I'll see you in the next video where we're going to get started with that